# Fritzing, Germany

We witnessed in the last few years a new wave of innovation in hardware and
electronics by adopting the culture of Open Source. People around the world started making electronics, sharing and collaborating on them, bringing to life some very exciting projects.

#### Company and Products

With the rise of this movement, the need for adequate tools was obvious, thus
Fritzing was born. Fritzing is an open-source hardware initiative to support
designers, artists, researchers and hobbyists to work creatively with
interactive electronics. They opened the doors to information and technologies
which were, hitherto, accessed only by engineers. They have demystified
electronics that appeared so difficult to fathom.

We interviewed Amin Zayani, Chief Operating Officer of Fritzing to understand
their business and open-source philosophy. He discovered ERPNext in 2012 and
integrated it with their software to manage manufacturing, inventory, support,
sales and billing. He is our ardent supporter and recommends us in important
forums.

Amin participated in the ‘Open Hardware Summit’ at the MIT. He showcased
Fritzing and key elements of ERPNext.

![](assets/erpnext_org/images/stories/fritzing-ohs.png)

> “Everyone who attended the Open Hardware Summit at MIT last week was very
impressed with ERPNext. They truly believe - as I do - that it’s the best ERP
software in the world for our scale”

Fritzing started as a project at the University of Applied Sciences Potsdam,
Germany. It was funded by the Ministry of Science. Two years into the project,
their funds dried up. They had a decision to make: they could either leave the
project unfinished or they could continue to build it by making it
commercially viable. They decided to take a step forward and establish
Fritzing as a company. They are doing phenomenal work in the realm of
Electronic Design Automation.

#### Best Practice: Documentation

Fritzing is teaching electronics to people without an engineering background.
They have done away with dependence on schematic symbol diagrams which are
abstract to understand and need knowledge of electronics. They have enabled
documentation of prototypes which mimic the realistic aspects of the
electronic components used in breadboards, sensors or cables.

![](assets/erpnext_org/images/stories/fritzing-board.png)

Downside of a breadboard based prototype: too big, too fragile, difficult to
spot mistakes, hard to transport, extremely difficult to reproduce

![](assets/erpnext_org/images/stories/fritzing-board2.png)

A compact, robust and industrially reproducible PCB (right), manufactured from
a Fritzing file (left)

#### Best Practice: New Product Developement

Fritzing enables easy transfer between a hardware sketch and software
representation. They make it possible to create PCB layouts turn into a robust
PCB Prototypes which were earlier difficult to “read” and could only be photographed. Fritzing has made it easily readable. 

![](assets/erpnext_org/images/stories/fritzing-lab.png)

#### Best Practice: Communication and Collaboration

There are about ten people working part-time and full-time at fritzing. There are students, professors, academic researchers, all working together at their own pace. Fritzing uses Trello in an “agile” way to make sure the daily business runs smoothly, and to manage business and software development. It
facilitates communication and reduces time spent collecting information. They
use instant messaging a lot. They have one weekly meeting where the entire
team comes together and discusses sales and plans.

The initiative that started as a project has today put technology in the hands
of non-experts. They are encouraging creativity by radically lowering the
entry barrier, and not limiting advancing users in the long run. The notion of
learning by doing and through the works of others, as opposed to from a
textbook.

![](assets/erpnext_org/images/stories/fritzing-logo.png)

[Fritzing Website](http://fritzing.org/home/)
