# Grupo Realize De Móveis, Brazil

In portuguese, Móveis means furniture. If you don't pay attention to the
spelling, you are very likely to confuse it with Movies-Hollywood. Grupo
Realize de Móveis is a furniture company based in São Paulo, Brazil.

#### Company and Products

Grupo Realize is a furniture company that started with 1 furniture store and 10 employees . Mr Antonio Carlos Pavan and Mr Armando Pavan Filho started this company in 2008. It has grown to include 11 stores and 200 employees. It is interesting to note how they managed to make a monthly turnover of USD 1 million.

#### The Challenge

In 2008, the furniture market was a highly fragmented business. The
supply-chain network was unpredictable. In such a scenario these businesses
were not able to stick to their committed delivery dates. Such delays were the
biggest generators of complaints, both official and unofficial. The official
complaints lead to lawsuits and bad reputation for most furniture companies.

In this state of chaos, Grupo Realize decided to turn the system on its head.
Instead of being bogged down by the lackadaisical delivery system, they used
this trait to acquire customers and become more profitable. They offered 50%
cash back if they did not deliver on the committed time, as a contract in
compliance with the consumer protection code. By doing so, they have become a
benchmark in the furniture industry. They acquire approximately 250 new customers in a month.

![](http://frappe.io/files/grupo_kitchen.png)

The process of how they meet their promises without going bankrupt is worth
noting. As a first step to ensure predictability, they make service level
agreements with their suppliers and carriers to comply with their Just-In-Time
strategy.

#### The Solution

They execute an order in three stages;

1. Confirm requirements with the customer. 
1. Purchase the raw-materials in time, once the requirement is final.
1. Arrange and schedule transportation to deliver the product to the customer.

They have divided teams based on responsibilities;

  1. SAC System looks after Customer Service.
  2. Scheduling team manages deadlines.
  3. Conference team ensures the technical specifications of the product.
  4. Assembly team brings together raw materials to make finished goods.
  5. Operations team monitors and supports the above teams.

#### Benchmark: Delivery

In Brazil, the market benchmark to deliver furniture orders is 70 days. Grupo
Realize de Móveis delivers in 30 days.

Additionally, they keep a buffer of 15 days for trouble shooting. In these 15
days, any problem related to lack of specific goods, transport or delivery is
solved. Their major challenge is to “douse the last-minute fire”. Orders with
last-minute problems or shortage of stock at supplier’s end are responsible
for most of the delays. Thus, in such problematic situations a separate study
is undertaken. Various possible solutions are put forth. Sometimes a
discussion takes place with the customer to re-align requirements. The
solution is then evaluated with the help of cost benefit analysis. Only in
complex cases, the operations team takes action to approve a charge out of
scope, or negotiate with the customer if there is a possibility of a lawsuit.

![](http://frappe.io/files/grupo_room.jpg)

Grupo Realize has used the weakest link of the market and created their own
unique selling proposition. They have systematised their processes,
established SLA’s and aligned various departments with their roles. Today they
deal with products that cost $ 10,000.00 (USD) per order.

We sincerely thank their software developer, Maxwell Morais, who is single-
handedly deploying ERPNext for their 11 stores.

![](assets/erpnext_org/images/stories/max_morais.jpg)

> Como o rei Pelé, que com seus pés fazem dos movimentos com a bola uma arte,
assim é ERPNext, transformando as dificuldades e transtornos do dia-a-dia da
gestão em uma tarefa simples, gratificante e acima de tudo produtiva.


> [in english] As king Pelé, who with his legs, moved the ball so artistically
and with ease, so does ERPNext–by transforming difficulties and disorders of
day-to-day management into simple tasks, which are rewarding and above all
productive.

![](http://frappe.io/files/realize_logo.png)

[Grupo Realize de Website Móveis](http://www.gruporealizemoveis.com.br/)

